I grew up underground and travelled in Celetia and at that time I visited the family with
copies of the watchtower.
They catched me and arrested me in Dresden and they were the same strong interrogation
and Jehovah held me in a wonderful way.
I was surprised by myself what kind of thoughts came in my mind.
When they asked me, did you know that the organization of the watchtower is forbidden
by the government?
I was saying, sure, I noted, why you were working underground against our command?
When I was saying the German judgment, they acknowledged the command, you have not
to steal, not to lie, not to murder, and this came from the mosaic law, it's from the
Bible.
If you acknowledged this command, then you have to acknowledge the other command too,
the Bible is saying you have to watch to come together and to encourage one another.
How can I do it if I would be ashamed to met them?
I want to do the will of God.
This is a command, the church was saying nothing, he spoke with it, besides church, but
he gave no answer.
I was sentenced at first five years and later on, they go down to three in the half
years, because I was so young, I was 25 years of age, so I start my solitary confinement,
but Jehovah's spirit made me a real joyful.
Every day I was thinking, now I have to make every day a special object to think about.
In fact, I want to think about the quality of Jehovah, I start with them, and so I put
my finger in there here and was running too and too and too and too, I want nothing
to hear outside, so wonderful thought and I was happy.
When that was over, then I start what is hope, what is faith.
I start to think about the fruits of spirit, you have a lot of, then I have so much to think
and the time runs after three in the half years.
The Gestapo called me again and gave me declaration, I have to sign that I never
want to be in connection with the Jehovah's witnesses and that I refuse to learn more
from the Bible, and I say, no, never, he said, you can think overnight, no, I want not
to think overnight, and immediately I say, never, I will do it, never, I will understand
it.
And then he was saying, then you have to take the consequences, you will come transferred
to the concentration camp, to the ratten spirit.
And when I came and they ordered, I have to put all my dress out to give them away and
then I have to stay with other prisoners, several hours in a big bathroom and we have to
wait till the doctor will see us.
And then it was so humiliating, they want to humiliate, and they want to make a down,
and the old women, between the young girls, they were so strong, ashamed, you saw it,
how they suffered, I never will forget it.
And after we get the new dress from the camp, and we were assigned to go to the panicked
barrack.
And then that was terrible night, so many prisoners, they were crying, denied, and other women,
with whom we have to vomit, and it was a terrible night.
In the next day, we have to go for rocking.
We had so strong to work, from morning in summer time, from 5 o'clock, we were in the
roll call place, till evening, they were not locked.
Then the quarantine came, we have no to go out, they closed the door, they give us a meal
by a through the window, and we have fine time to have rest.
We encouraged one another with spiritual interest, and the doctor came knock the window,
who died in your barrack, nobody.
No one, our old weak sisters, they overcome all, never, somewhere, became sick.
So it was real, a good witness for the other in the camp.
My husband was in the concentration camp at first in Dachau, and later on in Mauthausen.
They worked in a stone quarry.
And in that group, a brother had to bat shoes, they were too tight for him, and he took
them out, and he had forgotten to take them, and from the stone quarry to the camp.
And my husband wanted to help him, and he was running to pick up the shoes.
And the watchman observed that he ran away from the group.
His punishment was to hang for one hour on the pale.
When I asked my husband, how did you overcome such a tauter?
Then he said, I was thinking, how was the situation when Abraham had to kill his son?
And this was a long way I was all right thinking, what was his thoughts?
How had he overcome his feeling and what Jehovah wants for him?
And then this way, he didn't feel anymore after one hour, when he came down, the other
brothers were saying, you don't look as you have been on the tauter thing.
So Jehovah can help us in all such situations.
Every situation had some, what was not so easy.
But in every situation, we have a touch of wonderful help.
Jehovah's spirit, and we could pray.
Jehovah's name is the most important part in our life.
Nothing is so important like Jehovah's name.